Israel's leading human rights
organization says conditions inside the
country's prisons holding Palestinians
amount to torture but selum says
conditions have deteriorated since the
start of the war in Gaza last October
with the Red Cross prevented from
visiting Israeli prisons from Jerusalem
our diplomatic correspondent Paul Adams
sent this
report chaotic scenes at the state toan
military prison last week far-right
demonstrators including members of
Israel's parliament Furious that nine
prison guards were being arrested Israel
deeply divided over how to treat
Palestinian
prisoners thousands have passed through
these facilities since last October
Palestinians from Gaza and the West Bank
those who've come out recently paint a
terrifying picture of Life
inside after October 7th life totally
changed I call what happened at
tsunami faras has been in and out of
jail since the early '90s charged twice
with membership of an armed group
Islamic Jihad he was already in prison
without charge last October nothing
prepared him for what happened
next we were severely beaten by 20
officers masked men using batons and
sticks dogs and Firearms we were tied
from behind our eyes is blindfolded
beaten severely blood was gushing from
my face
since October Israel's prisons have been
overwhelmed the number of detainees has
almost doubled some have been released
without charge their accounts paint a
remarkably consistent picture all of
them told us the same things ongoing
abuse daily violence physical violence
and mental violence
humiliation sleep deprivation people are
starved the Israeli prison system as a
whole in regard to Palestinians turned
into a network of torture
camps the Israeli government rejects
that description but its far-right
security minister itamar benav
frequently boasts that on his watch
Palestinian prisoners are treated much
more harshly they tell me and it's not
just happening to Palestinians from Gaza
or the West Bank SAR hura is a lawyer
from hia an Israeli citizen okay
arrested last November and held for 10
days it nearly broke him they just lost
their mind simply they just lost their
mind there was no law sar's offense to
Facebook posts which the police said
glorified the Hamas attacks of October
the 7th first day a charge quickly
dismissed but not before he witnessed
the horrors being Meed out to fellow
prisoners they was screaming the guys
with we didn't do nothing you don't have
to hit us me an advocate that seen have
seen the world outside the prison now I
am inside I see another world we put
claims of mistreatment to the Israeli
military and prison service the Army
said it rejected outright allegations of
systematic abuse the prison service said
it wasn't even aware of the claims as
far as we know they said no such events
have
occurred some Palestinians being held by
Israel did Terrible Things on October
the 7th others had nothing to do with it
according to bet selum all are now being
held in prisons where violence and abuse
are the norm Paul Adams BBC News
Jerusalem